Using the JmsTemplate to send messages is actually quite simple.
Once your JmsTemplate has been injected into your object,
you can use it by simply calling the convertAndSend method.
In this example, I'm creating an email message every 5 seconds,
and placing it on the email's queue destination.
When the email is sent, it will be sent in a JSON format.
So let's start this application up.
On the console output window,
here I can see that we now have sent at least one email.
So if we jump into the ActiveMQ Admin console,
and look at the Emails queue,
then there will be a number of messages on that queue.
Now they'll all be the same for this simple example,
so we'll just look at one of them.
In it I can see the string property used by the message converter,
defining the fully-qualified class name,
and I can also see the body contains JSON representing
the data within the email object.
This example was sending to a queue, but sending to a topic is no different,
we would simply use the topicJmsTemplate Bean we described earlier.
It's also possible to form some raw JMS operations using the JmsTemplate.
If you still want to let the JmsTemplate take care of message conversion,
then there's an overloaded version of the convertAndSend
method that takes another parameter, which is the MessagePostProcessor,
which gives you access to the JMS message itself.
If you're using Java 8,
then you can easily replace this with a lambda expression.
This is a prime location to set the JMSXGroupID if you
want guaranteed ordering of messages.
If you don't want to use the message converter,
and would rather construct the message yourself,
then rather than calling convertAndSend,
you simply call the send method.
This takes a MessageCreator interface as a parameter.
Again, in Java 8, we can use a lambda expression for this.
You get access to the JMS session object,
which allows us to create new message types,
and do what you want with them.
Again this is the ideal spot to set the JMSXGroupID if
want guaranteed ordering of messages.
It's also possible to declare the TimeToLive,
a message priority for all messages sent with a JmsTemplate.
There are simply additional properties on the JmsTemplated class itself,
so you would ad them as part of your Spring Bean definition.
One disadvantage of the JmsTemplate is that it isn't directly possible to
set the TimeToLive and priority on a per-message basis.
If you do need to set the TimeToLive or priority in a more dynamic fashion,
then it's probably best to create a new instance of the JmsTemplate on demand,
rather than injecting the JMS template itself into your class.
In this example,
cachingConnectionFactory and messageConverter are injected into my class.
I then create a new JmsTemplate,
and set the priority and TimeToLive appropriately.
Notice that you must also call the setExplicityQosEnabled method with a value of true.